
---
**See [[English Literature and Language/1 - Voices Anthology (All My Sons)/Travelogue/Travelogue]] for an explanation of the genre**

Theroux uses a effective dry delivery when writing upon his travels in order to portray these otherwise dull and drab places in a humorous manner. Phrases like "...brutal pavements... designed to encourage suicide." speak of such a lowly place in an overly exaggerated way as if it were satire or a joke. To him as a tourist/traveller, the worst of the USA is on par with the best of France. As comparable as they are it makes it all the more sad because the residents live like this in "buildings that residents waited for Godot" being a clever twist on the culture within said city - the citizens hopelessly waiting for some sort of divine grace to liberate them - an unanswered call to "God-ish" (play on words).
He also refers to his own culture - quite frequently - in an attempt to appeal and relate to his assumably American audience (as so is he). He speaks vaguely on the temperance and ever-long repeating cycle of gentrification within his country, referring to how his "suburbs `[were put up]` too quickly and cheaply", maybe a comment - critical or not - in reference to the poor building materials used in homes - the inexpensive timber used within houses in the suburbs in the states. Unlike the forever brutalist blocks of France lining the streets of grey, the American homes slowly rot until they "collapse `[and are]` replaced; they were not built to last".

The horror lies herein this text by the permanence of the buildings. Mr Theroux holds no punches in his description and is brutal as the buildings he talks about, making a grim display of the seemingly horrible living conditions that are such a far cry from their American counterpart.