---
sticker: emoji//1f61d
---
I was first introduced to the power of computers by my father, and with his encouragement, I found a natural interest in them and their capabilities. Soon enough, by the age of 9 I had taught myself Python, and by 12 I could program sufficiently in 5 different languages, which I have used successfully for a variety of applications.

My interest in computer studies has forever exceeded just learning within the classroom, evidenced by the wide and expanding portfolio I have of work relating to computer science, and also my own website where I showcase all the personal projects I have created both past and present. Many times I have sought and learnt outside of what is taught in the curriculum. I have created multiple games available free to download online, to varying degrees of popularity and success. I launched my first game at 11 in the programming language Lua, which garnered 15,000 players within the first 3 months alone. Since then I created an accessible 3D platformer + exploration themed game for my EPQ, and most recently I entered into a "game jam" (a video-game-from-scratch competition) with a team of friends, where I led the programming, design direction and writing of the game, while collaborating with a team of artists and sound designers, using the Godot game engine.

More software-related projects I have completed involved self-teaching myself cloud-computing and Linux, so I could run my own game servers free of charge for friends. The sector I am most proud of and my current focus is software engineering. I currently have an app on the apple app store for users to track their calories for dieting. I'm in the process of building a cross-platform commercial app that helps GCSE and A-Level students study efficiently and stay organised. Aside from apps I have contributed to FOSS (free open source software) projects, such a module for primitive physics code, involving kinetic energy calculations, and !!!

Hardware is one of my passionate interests - beginning with a Raspberry Pi, I created an portable emulator for retro arcade games. Following this I've made progressively more advanced projects - going on to making a multitude of bespoke physical electronic products for clients. The last product I made was a automated pet feeder which could dispense pet kibble on a schedule for my neighbours and their dog, or manually by sending a text message, per their specifics. More recently I've helped numerous friends select components and build their own PCs, and I am currently creating a project based around machine learning, or computer vision; a turret that can shoot clay pigeons when thrown at high speeds.

For work experience, in year 13 I was to be a tutor for Computer Science, and taught peers in both years all aspects of the curriculum, and in addition, completed a weeks' worth of work experience at CHQ architects, where I completed tech-based & subject related work, such as server architecture. From both of these experiences I gained invaluable real-world experience and insight into professional work in the field, and developing teamwork, communication and time management skills.

Outside of education, I have taken part in many extracurricular activities. Notably, attending the InfoSec Europe convention 2024 in London, (where I was one of, if not the youngest people to attend), and spoke to Microsoft, Apple, Facebook and Amazon about their cybersecurity. 
Currently I am working towards my CISSP certification - recognised as the UK "gold standard" for cybersecurity; an exam typically taken by people twice my age.

In addition to my studies (and particular interest in the industry of computer science), in my spare time I enjoy numerous hobbies. Drawing digital art, swimming and cooking are very enjoyable to me, and I practice at least once a week to improve myself in them. More formally I have achieved a merit at grade 5 in Drumming, and I am currently working towards my DofE gold, having achieved both bronze and silver thus far.

I would relish the opportunity to study at your university to extend my academic + practical knowledge of this subject, so vital in our ever changing world.

