In **Text A**, Merryn Somerset Webb presents her former idealistic beliefs about financial independence, and juxtaposes it with a by contrast realistic truth towards money. 
Written as if it were a memoir, through a personal anecdote Webb aims to shatter the optimistic views she believes girls hold when they are younger towards finance and love, instead encouraging girls to "look after \[your]self". Through this, the text balances both emotional appeal and factual information enough to make the reader question their future and finance

Throughout the text Webb takes an initially positive tone and register towards the idea of finances and her future, which later shifts to a more pessimistic, almost cynical one. At first, Webb opens with a bright visionary, illustrating fact as fiction in a alluring, prestigious lifestyle, similar contextually to a memoir and reminiscent of the traditional rich housewife often found and depicted in early 1980's media.
However, Webb chooses to dismantle the idea immediately after the second paragraph, where she takes a more realistic view on finances in the modern day, 

Similarly, Webb creates the abstracted, romanticised figurehead of "Prince Charming" within the narrative, synonymising him with the ideal of financial freedom, and then presenting him as if it were a guarantee, but later on shatters this, comparing the idea of a perfect partner to a myth. Webb echos the falseness of this throughout her writing and this is shown very well by the third to last paragraph, where Webb repeats caveats of love, arguing how he could be "...poor himself" or "useless with money."
By the end of the extract, the noun phrase of "**my own** Prince charming" is reduced down to the initials of PT. This choice made by Webb could be to de-glamourise the idea of him, or to simply recognise the absurdity of both the idea and the repetition of a Prince Charming.

The choice and inclusion of Prince Charming in the extract highlights the absurdity of it all. The choice of using Prince Charming as this figurehead or scapegoat by Webb is cleverly deliberate, being parallel to the fairytale story, well known by young girls, who are exactly the target audience of the story. By presenting the reality of finances, Webb closely mirrors the fictionality of Prince Charming - he is simply for entertainment and not to be expected real, again alluding to the reality of finances for young girls, breaking unrealistic hopes.

Linguistically in her writing, Webb uses a wide range of language methods in order to effectively inform and persuade the audience. She addresses the reader directly through the use of personal pronouns like "you" and "we", to create an immediate bond with the reader, making the her appeal towards the end feel personal and direct. This is best shown in sentence towards the end of the of the extract "Face it: you aren't going to win the lottery, and the lottery of love is never going to pay out to your full sastisfaction. You've got to look out to yourself"

Webb grounds her writing in realism by blending elements of non fiction into her work, such as the facts given like "50% of UK marriages end in divorce" to appeal to the reader's rationality. Furthermore, Webb uses anaphora here to highlight the unlikelihood of a romance without compromises, repeating many possibilities of love, but with catches, beginning with "Your prince charming may well turn up... ...but he probably won't be what you had in mind.". This phrase and the other within the paragraph begin to illustrate how the average finances will be for a girl - to not portray an guaranteed easy life, enticing the reader to consider their own future and current finances with or without a well-off partner.

At the end of the extract, Webb uses both rhetorical devices as well as emotive language. The rhetorical question of "Can we possibly live a reasonable lifestyle and still save enough so that we aren't living off dog food in our old age?" and phrases like "take control of our money" are encouraging as the tone shifts to one of empowerment. The language in this final paragraph creates a semantic field of hope, and cleverly shifts the reader's focus into being financially responsible for their future - precisely what the rest of Webb's book is about.

